Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
-Rolling.
-We're rolling on him.
Roher:
Okay. We're going. guys?
-Yeah.
-[ Russian accent ] Yeah.
Okay. so. Alexei.
I want to talk about something
that we sort of touched
on this morning.
And you might hate this.
but I really want you
to think about it.
If you are killed.
if this does happen.
what message
do you leave behind
to the Russian people?
Oh. come on. Daniel.
No.
No way.
It's like you're making a movie
for the case of my death.
Like. again. I'm ready
to answer your question.
but please let it be
another movie.
Movie number two.
Like. let's make a trailer
out of this movie.
and in the case
I would be killed.
let's make
a boring movie of memory.
♪♪
[ Speaking Russian ]
Man:
Alexei Navalny is stepping back
into another showdown
with the Kremlin.
Woman:
What to do with Navalny
presents a conundrum
for the Kremlin.
Let him go and risk
looking weak or lock him up
knowing it could turn him
into a political martyr.
♪♪
Hi.
[ Applause ]
[ Speaks indistinctly ]
Man #2: Are you not scared.
Alexei?
Woman #2: What do you expect
in Moscow?
♪♪
[ People chanting "Navalny" ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
Woman #3: Unexpectedly.
Vladimir Putin
has a genuine challenger.
A handsome 41-year-old lawyer.
Alexei Navalny.
who has chosen one of the most
dangerous occupations
in the world --
running against the man
who controls the Kremlin.
Man #3: More than any other
opposition figure in Russia.
Alexei Navalny gets
ordinary people active protest.
[ Chanting in Russian ]
Alexei:
If I want to fight Putin.
if I want to be
a leader of a country.
I have to do something
practical about it.
Well. uh. I have to kind
of organize people.
I was banned from everything.
Television. banned.
Newspapers. blacklisted.
Rallies. forbidden.
I realized.
I can do a lot on my own
with the support
of my wife. Yulia.
Just small group of people.
I can rely on.
Zero money. a lot of work.
Internet and that's it.
Man #4: His youngest fans
have turned to TikTok.
which has been crucial
in spreading the word.
Woman #4: Navalny's
posted hundreds of videos
about his
corruption investigations.
and they're wildly popular.
Roher: The Kremlin hates Navalny
so much
that they literally refuse
to say his name.
[ Pounding ]
Alexei:
Our office was raided.
and they just confiscated
everything.
Everything.
They splash a toxic liquid
to my face
and my first
thought was "Jesus.
I will be some kind of monster
until the end of my days."
As I became more and more
famous guy.
I was totally sure that my life
became safer and safer
because I am kind of famous guy.
And it would be problematic
for them just to kill me.
Roher: And. boy.
were you wrong.
Yes. I was very wrong.
[ Chuckles ]
♪♪
[ Man speaks Russian ]
So. we went to Siberia
to make a nice movie
about local corruption.
I expected a lot of police.
I expected a lot of people
who'd try to prevent
our filming.
confiscate our cameras
or just break our cameras
or try to beat us.
I expected that sort of things.
and I was very surprised like.
"Hmm. why is nobody here?
Why is there kind of --"
I even -- I even have
this strange feeling
like a --
like a lack of respect.
"Seriously?
I'm here.
and where is my police?"
The whole trip was
the smoothest trip
I ever had in regions.
I am a kind of slave
of Thursdays.
because on Thursday.
I have my online YouTube show.
And then weekend. I can spend
with my family
before another trip
to another region.
I was going home and then...
I died.
[ Moaning in agony ]
Man #5: Passengers on his flight
from Siberia
heard Alexei Navalny
cry out in agony.
[ Navalny continues moaning ]
[ Siren wailing ]
Other passengers filming
just after the plane
makes an emergency
landing in Siberia.
Navalny then rushed
to the hospital
where he was
put on a ventilator.
His spokeswoman saying
Navalny was poisoned.
Roher: His wife raced to be
by his side.
♪♪
[ Yelling in Russian ]
[ Doctor speaking Russian ]
Interpreter:
We've come to the conclusion
that judging by the fact
there were no poisons
found in his blood
or no other
biological materials.
he has a metabolic disorder.
lowering of blood sugar levels
to be specific.
Man #6: We're hearing state news
agencies here that are backed
by the Kremlin suggesting
that hallucinogenic drugs
may be involved
but not poisoning.
[ Crowd chanting in Russian ]
[ Speaking German ]
Woman #5: This morning.
an air ambulance
from a German charity landed.
Interpreter:
We have to make sure
his condition
is completely stable.
We cannot transfer him
in this state
even if his family
have consented to it.
[ Applause ]
[ Man speaking Russian ]
[ Siren wailing ]
♪♪
Grozev:
The moment when I heard the news
that Navalny was poisoned.
my first thought was.
"Can this be the Kremlin?
Would they be so dumb to try
to kill an opposition figure?
The main opposition figure?"
I was skeptical.
I thought. "Hmm.
Maybe it's one
of the many oligarchs
on whose feet he has stepped.
Either it's
a state-ordered attack
or it is somebody
who is trying
to assassinate
opposition figures
in order to appease Putin."
Man #7:
The closest anyone's come
to tracing a poisoning
to Vladimir Putin --
The 2018 attack
in Salisbury. England.
Man #8: A defiant Kremlin
insisting again
that he had nothing to do with
the brazen assassination attempt
of former Russian spy
Sergei Skripal.
Skripal was poisoned
by the military-grade
nerve agent Novichok.
The insidiousness
of Novichok is that
it actually starts switching off
your nerve connectors
in your body one-by-one.
If it's dosed properly. it will
just turn you off as a body.
But then within hours.
any trace. it will disappear.
So it will always. forever look
like it was a natural death.
And this is why it appears to be
the preferred form of killing
for people whose death will be
under public scrutiny.
such as Navalny.
♪♪
There was a lot of pressure
for us
to start investigating.
Media departments in Russia
reached out to us
and said. "Can you help?"
We looked at it. and we thought.
"There's no hope in hell
we can investigate a crime
that happened in Russia
in the remote corners
of Siberia.
sitting here
comfortably in Europe."
We didn't even try
in the beginning.
♪♪
Woman #6: Alexei Navalny arrives
at this hospital in Berlin
with his wife. Yulia.
A spokesperson tweeted.
"The struggle for Alexei's life
and health is just beginning.
Here at the hospital.
both inside and out.
he'll be watched."
♪♪
Dasha: To have your dad.
an opposition leader
being poisoned
by we don't know what.
we don't know how.
we don't know when.
and just be
in a random hospital.
It was just...
It was surreal.
It was literally like a book.
[ Cellphone ringing ]
Hello.
The doctors assured
they can't say anything
about his brain
to which extent he will recover
even if they manage
to wake him up.
Many millions
of Navalny supporters
were trying to figure out
how to help.
We. in Berlin. are a small team.
We had to dive into. like.
actually getting things done.
Pevchikh:
We all were very skeptical
about investigating
Alexei's poisoning.
As opposed to previous cases.
this poisoning took place
on the Russian soil.
so no one is going
to share CCTV footage with us.
We're not going to have
fancy videos
from the airport where
the poisoners fly in and out.
And as much as it hurts
to admit.
while Putin is in power.
we'll never find out the truth.
[ Camera shutters clicking ]
Man #9: Yulia. how is
your husband this morning?
It was so crazy. like it's
Putin's signature poison.
We were actually so shocked.
So he didn't just decide
to murder him. but to poison.
And not just to poison.
but exactly Novichok.
This was. like. really. like.
leaving his signature
on the crime scene.
♪♪
When you come to a room
of a comatose patient.
you are starting
to just tell him the news.
Telling him his story.
"Alexei. don't worry.
You were poisoned.
There was a murder attempt.
Putin tried to kill you
with Novichok."
And he opened his. like.
blue eyes wide
and looked at me
and said. very clear...
"Oh. come on. Poisoned?
I don't believe it."
Like. he's back.
This is Alexei.
Putin's supposed to be
not so stupid
to use this Novichok.
His wording. his expletive.
his intonation.
If you want to kill someone.
just shoot him.
Jesus Christ.
Like. real Alexei.
It's impossible to believe it.
It's kind of stupid.
The whole idea of poisoning
with a chemical weapon.
what the fuck?
This is why this is so smart.
because even reasonable people.
they refuse
to believe like. "What?
Come on. Poisoned?
Seriously?"
♪♪
[ Merkel speaking German ]
Grozev: Traditional journalism
implies you meeting
with a source
and that source
telling you a story.
In today's world of fake news.
we don't trust sources
because we don't trust humans.
We trust data.
Bellingcat is an organization
of digital nerds.
most of us with a little bit
of almost autistic-like
fascination with numbers.
Every time you use your e-mail.
you make a phone call.
make a doctor's appointment.
take a plane or a train.
any time you use the ATM.
every time you actually look
at the screen of your phone.
that leaves a trace.
In place like Russia.
imagine the person who works
at a travel agency
that has access
to the flight manifests.
they're getting. what.
25 bucks a day as a salary.
And then for another $25.
they will be able to sell
that flight manifest
to anybody who asks for it.
just because they'll double
their income for the day.
This is a whole industry.
Data brokers are
on the dark web.
You negotiate the price and
within a few minutes. they say.
"Yep. I can get that data
for you by tomorrow."
And then you have
to send Bitcoin.
Now. Bellingcat can't pay
for that data
because it's a foundation.
so I have to pay
for that data myself.
Over the last five years of me
working on data journalism.
I would say I've spent $150.000.
My wife has no idea about this.
My wife suspects I've spent
probably $2.000 or $3.000.
If she knew the real quantum.
she wouldn't be my wife.
Roher: But she's gonna
watch the movie.
She's not watching this movie.
I'm absolutely sure she's not
watching this movie now.
Wheeeee!
Volkov: Our expectation was
once he's released
from intensive care.
he will have a desire
to go to Russia immediately.
To our great relief.
he told me.
"I better spend
several months here.
I want to go back to Russia
strong and fully recovered."
[ Clicks tongue ]
♪♪
Grozev: For the longest time.
I wasn't sure
what to make of Navalny.
I had always wondered how much
of an independent figure he is
or is he one of the many
fake opposition figure
created by the Kremlin.
I've criticized him on Twitter.
I mean. he was known for having
flirted with the extreme right
in the early days
of his career.
He'd walked side-by-side
with some pretty nasty
nationalists and racists.
Had he moved beyond that?
Had he actually become
a reverse dark knight?
Alexei: Within all my career.
I've been asked the same
15 questions all the time.
Are you afraid?
Are you working for Kremlin?
What is your family doing?
You have a responsibility
for your family.
When if it's. foreign --
foreign. uh. journalist.
they're asking about
nationalism and Russian March.
And every one of them.
Jesus Christ.
just watch previous interviews.
Roher: Hold on.
Were there not
a couple of Sieg Heil-ers
at that thing?
Sorry?
Were there not a couple
of Nazi guys at that march?
Certainly a Sieg Heil-ers
would be a different category
that you would not
want to associate with
or march beside.
Well. in the normal world.
in the normal. uh. political
system. of course.
I would never be within the same
political party with them.
But we are creating coalition.
broader coalition
to fight the regime
just to achieve the situation
where everyone
can participate in election.
'Cause a lot of politicians
would be uncomfortable
even associating or being
in the same photograph
as one of these guys.
You're comfortable
with that?
I'm okay with that.
and I'm --
I consider it's --
it's my political superpower.
I can talk to everyone.
Anyway. well. they. uh. are
citizen of Russian federation
and if I want to fight Putin.
if I want to be a leader
of a country.
I can-- I cannot just ignore
the huge part of it.
Well. there are a lot of people
who call themselves
nationalists.
Okay. let's discuss it.
We're living in the country
when they are poisoning
a politician and killing people.
And. uh.
arresting people for nothing.
Uh. so. of course.
I am totally fine
to sit with a guy
whose. uh. whose rally
looks kind of not
very good for me.
Grozev: The Russian media
didn't find anything.
and German investigators
didn't have the jurisdiction.
So we realized. "There's nobody
who's actually going
to actively investigate this
unless we jump into this."
♪♪
We knew that the poison
was Novichok
and Novichok. we had proven
in the previous investigation.
is only manufactured
in this facility
called the Signal Institute.
The Signal Institute in Moscow
works under the guise
of a R&D center
that develops advanced forms
of sports. nutrition drinks.
That's the legend.
Yet. they employ.
for this work.
12 scientists whose only
experience and background
is in chemical weapons.
Our hypothesis --
this is the entity
that actually provides
the poison for the killers
who travel around the world
poisoning people with Novichok.
So what we did is we bought from
the Russian black market
the phone records for the head
of the Signal Institute.
We looked at numbers
that only appear
just before
the poisoning of Navalny.
and those were suspicious.
But once we have
a suspicious number.
you go through a number
of Russian apps
that allow you to see
how that phone number is listed
in other people's phonebooks.
So. for example.
I put in my number
and it will show up as Christo
the journalist from Bellingcat.
because somebody would have put
my name into their phonebook
and that description would have
been shared into this app.
First number I looked up.
showed up as
"Alexey doctor from FSB."
Well. that was interesting.
A doctor from FSB?
Alexey?
But that was not enough.
We couldn't place a real person
behind this name.
Then. I would look up
if this number showed up
in any car-registration
databases.
And we found an actual
Alexey Alexandrov who owns a car
and this number was listed
for contacting that person.
So. then you have a real person
with a birthday.
Then. you look up
his passport file.
you see his face.
You repeat that many times with
the other suspicious numbers.
and then you have a short list
of interesting people.
And these became
our prime suspects.
Now. we knew when Navalny
had traveled to Siberia.
We had the actual
passenger manifests
of six different flights
that had flown into Novosibirsk
where Navalny flew from Moscow
on the day before.
during. and after the day
on which he arrived there.
So. we needed to see if any
of those suspicious people
traveled to Siberia
at the time of the poisoning.
and we found an overlap.
We found a nest of wasps
we didn't know existed.
It's a domestic assassination
machine on an industrial scale.
I was absolutely shocked
that this was so fast
and the whole plot
disentangled so quickly.
so I just reached out by Twitter
and said. "Alexei.
I think we may have found
who poisoned you."
Alexei: After I had went out
of the hospital.
I decided to move
to Black Forest
and live in some small village.
You can just walk for hours
and not meet any person at all.
These are my German friends.
actually.
The little pony is my friend
and donkey is Yulia's friend.
And this is. uh.
routine of our walk.
Come here. my little pony.
Isn't he sweet?
Better than your donkey.
Everybody like
the small pony.
It's like usual.
But donkey is like...
You're scaring him.
Go away.
Aw. you poor guy.
Donkey. hi.
Of course. you like me.
Oh. come on.
This is a very
irritable woman.
Come on.
my mighty horse.
Come here.
More carrot.
You grow big.
They are cute.
but they are not very smart.
So. they decided.
for their fence.
not to provide electricity.
Stop. Do it.
♪♪
Ahhh.
Yulia want an apple
and asked me
to take it.
But it's Germany.
so it's someone's apple.
And there is a police
over there.
I'll come there when
it will be dark.
And no police.
So. you're
a Russian criminal
who arrived to Germany?
No. it's. like --
It's okay.
It belongs to.
I don't know.
How do you know? How do you know
that it belonged --
Because it's open place.
There's no anything.
which...
This is a very Russian style.
you know. of thinking
about property.
Like.
it belong to everyone.
because
it's an open place.
Just come and get it.
♪♪
Pevchikh:
The story of this guy
who lives in Vienna
but is Bulgarian
but worked in Russia and that
he has all of his own money
and he spends it all
on investigations
in Russian crimes.
He just sounded too suspicious.
Too good to be true.
Too...capable?
He sounded a bit. you know.
made up.
Roher: Are you confident
that he is not
MI6 or CIA?
I'm pretty confident.
I wouldn't say I rule it out.
but I'm pretty confident
that he's not.
♪♪
Alexei: I was suspicious
about this guy from Twitter.
I just saw his old laptop
and all these tables with data.
Turns out. and I was
very surprised.
that the whole thing
about Bellingcat
is just one smart guy.
no CIA involved. no MI6.
He's just a-a nice
and very kind
Bulgarian nerd with a laptop.
Grozev: I will show you
photographs.
Tell me if you recognize
any of the people
in those photographs.
Grozev: Getting through
emotionally to Alexei
was a piece of cake.
Took literally an hour.
Getting through to Maria
took much longer.
She was very tough.
She never smiled.
She was the one vetting me.
whether I am a spy or not.
But we needed information
that only his team
would be privy to.
So we found a very
workable arrangement.
which was completely ethical
and acceptable to us.
We agreed that Maria Pevchikh
would be working
as part of our team
and she would not be
sharing with Alexei
all the information
in real time
so that we wouldn't
be influenced
by the bias of the victim.
♪♪
When we discovered
this clandestine operation.
it was so shocking that even
to us. it looked unbelievable.
I mean. come on.
The government is paying a whole
team of 20-plus people
whose only job is
to poison other Russians?
That sounds improbable.
So we needed other journalists
to look at it.
I would like to share
the limelight
with some global medias
so that is validated
by more than just us.
So. CNN and Spiegel
are fine with you?
-Yeah. Absolutely.
-Okay.
That means that we need to film
exactly like a week from now.
maybe. like...
♪♪
Grozev: We had a nightmare
trying to get everybody to stick
to the same time.
It's all timed
for a simultaneous release.
All the media channels
are going to drop the bombshell
simultaneously.
Lister: There's a huge debate
as to whether
this was intended
to incapacitate or kill.
Man #10:
Incapacitate or kill?
Yeah.
If. for example.
Navalny had laundry
returned to him
while he was staying
at the Tomsk Hotel
the afternoon
before he left...
...would that be
a point of access?
It's definitely a possibility.
The question is how well you
can dose the agent that way.
You put. let's say. 10 times
the deadly dose
on the clothing.
You must be sure. however.
that at least
one lethal dose
gets into the body.
♪♪
Tomorrow we'll set up a phone
with fake I.D.
So if we can call them
through this number...
Yulia: We pretend
to be someone else.
...we can try
to prank them.
Yes. of course.
Navalny will call
personally these poisoners.
one by one.
and we will record this.
Hi. this is Navalny.
You may remember me
from trying to kill me.
Man #11: Alexei.
great to see you.
Thank you very much
for coming.
Is it your contention
that Vladimir Putin
must have been
aware of this?
Of course. 100%.
It could have not
happened without...
Alexei:
Who's the most stupid?
Grozev:
Most stupid of them?
Well. definitely
these are Spetsnaz guys
with no real training.
I think it makes sense to try
to prank stupid guys
and. uh. maybe
these non-military guys.
Roher:
When you were a kid.
did you have
any political awareness?
Was this
a political family?
Did your family talk
about politics?
Yes. my family talks
about politics all the time
and it was very. uh...
They start to talk much more
after Chernobyl disaster.
Because actually.
my father and his family.
they are from Chernobyl.
from the small village
2 kilometers away.
And. I would say. 10 kilometers
away from the nuclear station.
Everyone knows that there was
an explosion
of a nuclear station.
but news keeping silence
and so all this nuclear
and radioactive dust
was on these fields
and they were forced to go
to plant potatoes
just to prevent rumors.
just to explain population
that everything is fine.
Everything is okay!
Go and work in the fields!
And with the first appearance
of Putin on the screen.
I just felt it.
I have this same feeling
like I am watching TV
and I am watching
political lizard
and he's looking into my eyes
and lying to me.
This is the biggest
challenge for me.
I tried to practice juggling
about a month
and because of coordination
and balancing.
because you need
some balance here. it's...
I'm very bad in it.
♪♪
Schmid: I think
he wants to make sure
this hits home in Russian media.
And he thinks that's best done
if he does it.
One more time.
So. we're not being journalists
reporting about some politician.
but we're reporting
about a politician
who has his own YouTube show
with over 13 million followers
and who considers himself
half a journalist.
Ahh!
Yeah!
Actually. this first time
you're lucky.
That's a very unusual situation.
and it doesn't
make things easier.
Dasha:
Mom. is this yours?
No. you had water.
Hold my beer
while I making a TikTok.
No. no. no.
Just the second one.
you just are filming me
with him and I'm asking.
"How bizarre?"
Okay.
♪ How bizarre ♪
Ho. Again.
You should remove
second one.
Oh. we can do that?
Yes. of course.
This is. you know...
I don't know how --
I don't know how to do that.
Who's 19?
♪ ...smile from the past ♪
♪ Elephants and acrobats.
lions. snakes. monkeys ♪
♪ Pele speaks "righteous" ♪
♪ Sister Zina says "funky" ♪
♪ How bizarre ♪
[ Laughing ]
You know that Christo call it.
"Moscow4."
Uh. you know
what is Moscow4?
Roher: No.
What is that?
Well. the e-mail of the very
top-brass guy from intelligence
was hacked several times
and his first password
was Moscow1 and they hacked him.
So second his password
was Moscow2.
and they hacked him as well.
And so the third time.
he had passcode Moscow3.
And just guess what was
his fourth password.
So Moscow4 is the explanation
of the stupidity of the system.
Dasha. you take my phone
and you'll be in the kitchen
pretending
you're General Bogdanov.
Grozev:
Could I see the...
I have no idea.
[Line ringing]
[Ringing continues]
Okay. well. super. super.
Tomorrow we will
make these calls.
Honestly. I don't think
it will work.
because. well. FSB guys.
They supposed to be
resistant to pranks.
Uh. but Moscow4.
Moscow4.
Ah. yes. and then we arrange
to push the button
and everything will be
published exactly at 12:00.
And also.
I will publish my TikTok
I recorded today.
And we'll have a kind of 15
minutes of shame with it.
Okay. see you tomorrow!
♪♪
Hello.
Now. I totally feel like
I am undercover agent
with the wired up.
Are you nervous?
Sorry?
No.
A little bit.
[Line ringing]
♪♪
Vladimir:Hello.
Grozev: He hung up.
Oh. my God.
you ruined their day.
Not just today. I guess.
[Line ringing]
Alexey: Hello.
Hung up.
Maybe try it
the prank way.
Okay.
[Line ringing]
Mikhail:Hello.
He hung up.
That was
a freaking scared guy.
He recognized your voice?
Muscle is not stupid.
I really think a scientist
might talk to you.
1% chance.
Let's -- let's try to reach
some scientists.
Kudryavtsev's interesting.
[Line ringing]
Konstantin:Hello.
Alexei: Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm.
Now we got everything. yes.
How could you do this?!
How could you do this?
So. now we know
everything like...
Moscow4.
Oh. my fucking God.
Actually. he's not a muscle.
He's a chemist.
Yes.
He spilled
the whole story.
This is unbelievable.
Poor guy.
They will kill him.
literally.
I think you'll be president.
seriously. after this.
[ Laughter ]
They will
definitely kill him.
Poor Kudryavtsev.
Poor Kudryavtsev. yes.
[ Sighs ]
Let's offer him
to defect.
Let's arrange for him
the whole thing.
Seriously.
'Cause I think that's
a humanitarian thing to do.
He will be in a ditch
by tomorrow.
They'll just kill him.
They will kill him.
Okay. well. Spiegel
has been begging me
to call them
since the morning.
Can I tell them
this already?
Confidentially?
Are we going to publish
this conversation?
Yeah.
Because I think
we should wait for a --
Putin's press conference.
at the very least.
Sorry?
To Putin's press conference.
at the very least.
It is on Wednesday
or Thursday?
Thursday.
♪♪
Christo. before
pushing this button.
I want to say
that was amazing job.
Thank you everyone
for your contribution. guys.
[ Computer dings ]
Yeah!
High-five.
Okay. good.
Good. good. good. good.
Let's go.
♪♪
Woman #7: Now an exclusive
investigation can reveal
a top-secret mission...
Ward: An elite team
of operatives
has been tracking
Navalny's every move
for more than three years.
Alexei:
Oh. thank you very much.
It's an honor for me to be on
such a big television of Spain
and I'm very pleased
that you are paying attention
to this situation.
So. thank you very much.
This scheme which looks like
it's from the movies.
but in this particular case.
it's a real scheme
with real people.
Putin on the very top.
Ward: In mid-August. Navalny and
his team traveled to Siberia.
At least five members
of the FSB unit
make the same journey
on different flights.
Well. they can't be
tailing him now.
but of course.
I'm sure they're trying to.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Back in Tomsk. there was a surge
in communications
among the FSB unit
and their bosses.
If it was expected that
Navalny would die on the flight.
they were now scrambling to deal
with a very different situation.
We enter a rundown
apartment building
on the outskirts of Moscow
where operative
Oleg Tayakin lives.
My name is Clarissa Ward.
I work for CNN.
Can I ask you
a couple of questions?
Was it your team that...
So. you've said that you want
to go back to Russia?
You're aware of the risks
of going back?
-Definitely.
-Why do you want to go back?
I don't want these. you know.
group of killers exist
in Russia.
I don't want Putin
being president.
I don't want him
being czar of Russia.
I want to go back
and try to change it.
Fantastic piece.
-Yeah.
-The dream team.
-Absolutely.
-Cheers.
"He opened his mouth
to American songs."
Grozev: On TikTok.
They are lying.
Yeah. crazy stuff. huh?
Crazy. funny stuff like...
Who's he?
But think about it.
they're talking about this
all the time.
They're talking
about you.
In their version. "Ha-ha-ha.
this is very funny."
But the main point is
they have a big problem.
Otherwise they would
not launch it.
Yep. Right. right. right.
Because. well.
it's first channel.
They allowed the state
number-one channel
that has never mentioned
his name
to only talk
about him now.
Yes. you're absolutely right.
This is a main point.
It's not affordable for them
to keep silence.
[ Gunfire on video game ]
[ Speaks indistinctly ]
Mm-hmm.
She plays chess...
Better than all others
in our family.
...better than everyone
in our family
and because
of this series...
-Queen's Gambit.
-..."Queen's Gambit."
she's demanding that everyone
should play chess.
But nobody is playing.
That is why I'm playing
with the phone.
I definitely prefer
"Call of Duty."
I definitely prefer chess.
Dasha: I prefer shopping.
♪♪
Ready for
a 12-hour flight.
We have to sit down
for good luck.
Yes.
♪♪
Starting from 13 years old.
I would think about
what would I do...
if my dad was killed?
We never had. like.
thetalk.
You know. it's not --
it's not anything that you can.
like. sit at the table
and discuss.
Alexei: So. it's nice for you.
Dasha. to see the snow.
So much snow
before you go to L.A.. right?
There is snow in California.
There was a point a year ago.
where my dad
was almost not there
for my high school graduation.
He was in jail once again
and. like. the whole day.
I was just thinking about
how my dad would've been...
I'm sorry.
My dad would've been proud
to see me walk on the stage
and get my certificate.
And he wouldn't get that option.
because he was in jail
for doing the right thing.
♪♪
I know that my dad
misses Russia...
...even though it's scary
to go back.
♪♪
And if he didn't go back.
I would say. "You need
to go back and fight."
♪♪
It's something
worth fighting for.
♪♪
[ Camera shutters clicking ]
His favorite. favorite
ultimate answer
for everything is CIA.
Great. great. great.
great. great.
Very good.
-Of course.
Because this is just
amazing pass to us.
Now we have a bull.
because he said. like. "Well.
if we want to poison him.
of course.
we would have poisoned him."
So. just -- just --
just we will --
I mean. the whole argumentation.
we will smash it.
[ Speaks indistinctly ]
♪♪
Pevchikh: I'm just very curious
how people will react to it.
whether they will be as
astonished as we are. hopefully.
'Cause nothing like that's
ever happened to anyone.
Oh. that's totally unbelievable.
I would never believe it
if I wasn't part of it.
Three hundred...
300.000 views for 20 minutes.
One hour later.
1 million views.
Bjork.
Maria. Cool.
The poisoning of Russian
dissident Alexei Navalny
has taken
an even more bizarre turn.
Ward: If this was a Hollywood
movie. you would say
it was over the top.
but this is not.
This is real and. boy. does this
conversation punch a giant hole
in the Kremlin's narrative.
Surely. this is hugely
embarrassing for the Kremlin
and for the FSB.
Oh. absolutely.
It's embarrassing
for Mr. Kudryavtsev.
It's embarrassing for the FSB.
It's embarrassing
for the Kremlin.
Woman #8: The FSB has said that
the video of the conversation
posted on Navalny's
YouTube channel was fake
and that the phone call
was a provocation
aimed at discrediting
the agency.
Interpreter:
Navalny is suffering from
delusion of persecution.
Otherwise. there's a Freudian
fixation on his own crotch area.
This is probably how
all this should be treated.
♪♪
Roher:
How is President Navalny
different
from President Putin?
Well. my major task
as a president just to prevent.
you know.
this damn circle
of re-establish
of authoritarian regime.
In authoritarian country.
you are pro-authoritarian leader
or you're against
authoritarian leader.
So. we are in more primitive
politics like human rights.
freedom of speech.
fair election.
♪♪
The power and money.
tax money --
they supposed to belong
to the local communities.
And in Russia.
everything decided in Moscow.
So. being a president
and just having this.
you know.
big pie of my power
and I will cut it
for the future of Russia.
♪♪
[ Indistinct conversations
in Russian ]
♪♪
I apologize.
I am sorry for the record.
But just five minutes ago.
I told Daniel to get the fuck
out of here with his camera.
so. like. I apologize for that.
because. well. it's --
Everything is. like --
Everything is happening
in the last 10 minutes.
and I have to make. like.
a millions of e-mails.
And. Leonid. have a seat.
Maria. have a seat.
You make me nervous because
you're standing over me. sorry.
Ha ha ha ha.
Sorry. I have to sit.
It's a Russian superstition.
but it's important.
♪♪
[ Screaming ]
Grozev:
The anti-riot police
just started arresting
everybody.
including journalists.
live on the air.
This is crazy.
Jesus. Jesus.
I've never seen anything
like this.
[ Screaming ]
There's no way they're not
going to arrest him.
I don't think
that they will let him
come to the front.
I think they're going to
yank him away
before anybody else
is let off the plane.
♪♪
This is the plane
and this is Moscow.
And this is the plane.
[Captain speaks indistinctly]
[ Laughter ]
♪♪
It's a hot potato.
really.
They're realized
that it's not possible
to control the crowd.
and they chickened out.
♪♪
[ Horn honking ]
[ Honking continues ]
♪♪
[Speaking Russian]
[ Crowd chanting "Yulia" ]
♪♪
Man #12: Yulia! Yulia!
[ Crowds chanting in Russian ]
♪♪
[ Man yelling in Russian ]
[ Crowd chanting in Russian ]
♪♪
Roher:
Alexei. if you are arrested
and thrown in prison
or the unthinkable happens
and you're killed.
what message
do you leave behind
to the Russian people?
My message.
for the situation
when I am killed
is very simple -- not give up.
Do me a favor.
answer this one in Russian.
Um...
♪♪